the history of world war ii is one of
those
peculiar topics where the teacher or
professor
never needs to pause to explain to the
class
why does this matter students
never raise their hands and demand to
know
why do we need to study this at all if
any of you in the audience know what
it's like to teach
math if you know what it's like to teach
french grammar
you know what it's like to have students
put up their hands and demand to know
why are you teaching this to me anyway
why does this matter somehow
it's very clear to everyone that our
understanding
our narrative that we've construed and
asserting the world about
what happened in world war ii and why it
matters and what it means to us today
this is something quite integral to each
of us
individually in how we fashion our own
political identity
in the 21st century and for many
countries around the world
their sense of identity and purpose is
still to this day formed by world war ii
oh you you think i'm just talking about
the united states you think i'm just
talking about australia and canada or
or germany or france have you heard of
india
have you ever thought about the way
world war ii is linked to
the decline and fall of the british
empire and how those countries
achieved independence have you thought
for a minute about what world war ii
means to them
it's a big deal it's it's been a big
deal for a while
and it's going to continue to be a big
deal and of course
what you mostly see on the internet is
right-wing demagogues who are
challenging
the official narrative about what
happened in world war ii uh
for completely insincere and frankly
evil
reasons and most of us who are maybe
moderates pragmatists in the center or
left of center
most of us don't ever stop to think
maybe there's really some benefit
for us also in going back and
re-examining
the roots of fascism the origins of nazi
ideology
in europe and in evaluating the extent
to which we ourselves
maybe were raised with propaganda even
if that propaganda
were constructed and construed and
taught to us
with no bad intentions whatsoever i'll
give you an example
my father had this
aesthetic sense that
to refer to adolf hitler as a madman to
refer to fascism or nazism as
insanity uh was childish that that was a
sort of
unsophisticated redneck view of history
whereas he felt and he conditioned me to
think also
uh it was erudite and sophisticated
to evaluate what adolf hitler did as if
it were a rational response to economic
conditions
after world war one this may sound
familiar to a lot of you
in the audience i think a lot of school
teachers primary school high school
even in university consciously or
unconsciously
they want to rationalize what happened
in this period
of history and in doing so they are
constructing a program
frankly they're giving a version of
history that's flattering
to adapt hitler and the nazis even if
what they mean to do is to condemn it as
harshly
as possible in rationalizing that
chapter of history you are
ipso facto necessarily sweeping under
the rug
occult elements esoteric
elements spirituality
and remarkably in the year 2020
it's very clear to say
those spiritual esoteric occult elements
are the elements now being revived
that are popular once again in the form
preserved in the writings of julius
evilla
i prefer to pronounce his name evola
so that it rhymes with ebola but sadly
the name is pronounced
julius evola
here's a google engram chart showing you
the resurgence in popularity
since the year 2000 and and keep in mind
google engram is only showing you how
many times this name appeared
in print in books this is not capturing
how many times this guy is being
discussed
on podcasts on youtube
on websites like the original alt-right
alt-right.com
the new age person never wants to go
deep beyond the surface level
feel good aspects of their philosophies
which makes it the perfect religion for
the new world order because
it allows its followers to be internally
detached it gives them a way
to spiritually amuse themselves but
nothing more
now the difference with uh tradition is
that there are several schools of fully
developed thought where
the path requires a real effort and will
challenge the person to grow and develop
with any traditional path you have to
put in actual work and there's no easy
victories
no fluffy feel good answers
[Music]
so some aspects of tradition might be
very appealing to new agers
like the ones who quote the buddha and
put statues of him in their gardens but
it's ultimately just a fashion statement
for them to them the buddha was just
this witty guy who makes them feel good
but as soon as buddhism starts demanding
genuine effort from them
they move on to the next feel-good thing
one of the reasons why
his name is manny devotes so much on
social media
is that he's one of the few remaining
philosophers of nazism whose name will
not result in you
immediately getting banned from these
same social media websites and
and why is that it's because
julius evela unlike unlike a guy like
rosenberg right rosenberg was more
influential
when they were both alive he was more of
an official
spokesperson for and mouthpiece for the
nazi party and he also
wrote about so-called spiritual racism
very closely comparable uh uh
this guy evola he kind of has a
peg that he can hang his hat on as a
buddhist scholar